---
layout: post 
title: My .emacs 
tags: 
- Emacs 
- Tech 
status: publish 
type: post 
published: true 
---

It seems pretty customary on the internet that if you are an emacs user, you will write some kind of a blog post about your .emacs - the mysterious little (or HUGE) file that contains all your little timesaving hacks, awesome extensions and super-custome macros. Today I thought that I should share my .emacs. It started off pretty small but as you might expect it's getting larger by the day! <!--more--> My 

[.emacs][1] is more a little system than a just one file, and I use Dropbox to keep everything in sync. A one line description would be: All my lisp lives in ~/Dropbox/emacs/lisp and ~/Dropbox/emacs/site-lisp respectively, my .emacs adds these directories to my load path, then loads a number of libraries in lisp/ which do the rest. The magic snippet from my .emacs is: 
    
    
    (defvar emacs-root (if (or (eq system-type 'gnu/linux)
    			   (eq system-type 'linux))
                           "/home/david/Dropbox/"
                         "C:/Users/David/My Documents/My Dropbox/")
      "My home directory")
      
This sets my emacs-root variable up depending on whether I am using windows or linux. I don't really use windows anymore, but it is nice to leave in just in case. Following this I have a series of add-path statements, all relative to my emacs-root 

    
    (labels ((add-path (p)
             (add-to-list 'load-path
                            (concat emacs-root p))))
       (add-path "emacs/lisp")
       (add-path "emacs/site-lisp")
    )
    
I can then call the libraries that I keep in my lisp directory: 

    (load-library "myfunctions")
    (load-library "keys")

These libraries contain all the (require 'package) statements that used to litter my .emacs file, as well as setting up custom variables such as tab width and the like. That's pretty much it. Below is a small listing of what my emacs directory looks like in Dropbox: 

    
    ./lisp:
            browser.el
            dev-config.el
            keys.el
            looknfeel.el
            modes.el
            myfunctions.el
            texconfig.el
            typing-speed.el
    
    ./site-lisp:
    
            auto-complete-1.3:
    
            cedet-1.0:
    
            ecb:
    
            elib-1.0:
    
            emacs-w3m:
    
            haskell-mode:
    
            magit-0.8.2:
    
            malabar:
    
            nxhtml:
    
            w3m:
    
            yasnippet-0.6.1c:

One final tip: I talked about this in a comment thread on [reddit][2] and it was suggested keeping your .emacs file in Dropbox also, and simply making your ~/.emacs a symlink. This makes this setup even more simple to maintain between machines. Hopefully this has given you a few new ideas for how to structure and order your emacs lisp files, and keep them all in sync with Dropbox. 

Links: Steve Yegges ["my .emacs file"][3] for giving me the idea of using directories.

 [1]: http://gist.github.com/601276
 [2]: http://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/d9v6y/use_a_single_emacs_for_multiple_machines/c0ym9zi
 [3]: http://sites.google.com/site/steveyegge2/my-dot-emacs-file
