---
layout: post
title: Google+
tags: 
- google+
- opinion
- Tech
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---

### In which I describe what I think are some of the key features of Google+ 

I waited a few days for my invite, enough time to build up a healthy sense of anticipation. What was Google's "Facebook killer"? Someone had shared a Google+ photo with me, I could even see it, but any attempt to comment just gave me a message telling me I needed to upgrade my Google account -- if only I could! 

Finally, one evening, clicking the upgrade my account link took me straight to the sign up page. The excitement was building, and I quickly hammered in my details, all of which I'm pretty sure the big G has had for years. Sign up done. I am taken straight to the "homepage", the Stream, the central hub of Google+. First impressions: minimal, sleek, very Google looking, but it feels like they have really put some effort in to the interface. Looking around, it does look pretty familiar -- no surprises there -- so I head to Circles to see how many of my friends are already here.

Everyone keeps talking about Circles as the really big feature. It does help to address the privacy concerns that have dogged Facebook recently, but it opens up a whole wealth of opportunity to waste time coming up with taxonomically satisfying friend groupings. I just threw friends into "Friends", family (just my Dad so far) into "Family", and then put a couple of internet superheroes into "Follow". Circles done.

Where Google+ will really shine is in its combination of Facebook and Twitter features. By providing a Facebook-esque service but adding a key feature: asymmetrical "friend" relationships, it becomes a whole lot easier to grab users. The best thing about the asymmetrical relationship model is it lets you use your own definition of "friend" without risking offending anyone. Most of the things I have talked about up above are "social" features, things that can be directly compared to Facebook or Twitter. Instant Upload is slightly less social, but really shows off the power Google has to do some really awesome things with their pervasiveness. 

Instant upload lets you upload every photo you take on your phone automatically, dumping it straight into Google+ and Picasa Web Albums. This is a genius move, because instantly people are investing into Google, storing copies of their photos in the cloud. The last thing I wanted to touch on was a great slide [deck][1] I found via Hacker News. The slides talk about the overlooked features of Google+ and suggests that it will really expand its sharing powers, making it easy for people to share *anything* on the web. My clumsy description doesn't really do the presentation justice, so I really recommend you check it out.

 [1]: http://www.hackerne.ws/item?id=2761989
